do you want a step-by-step framework on
how to nail cold calls
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business Grace show
and if you haven't done so yet check out
my weekly email where I share actual
website and marketing tips useful
podcasts free goodies and more each and
every Monday to kick off your week with
a bang why not sign up today over at
businessgrowth dot email so today I'm
sharing part of an interview I ran a
while back with Benjamin dennehay the
UK's most hated sales trainer where we
talk about how to nail cold cools we
talk about the psychology behind them we
talk about a full step-by-step strategy
we talk about what are the end results
the end goals the main outcomes that you
want of a successful cold call and we
share exactly what not to do and how to
get the best results to make sure your
cold calls are actually driving
qualified sales meetings for your
company and leading towards profitable
Revenue let's dive in I want to start
from the very start so from initial cold
call
what is the um what's the reason for it
what are we trying to achieve what are
we trying to get out of a cold cool
so that's a good question so I ask
everybody that question what is the
purpose
of a cold call and you get an array of
answers and you get things like well to
get an appointment
to find pain
uh to understand need uh to gather
information you get all these answers
like this and nobody ever gets the real
answer and I say look those are all good
answers but everything you've just given
me is an outcome right gathering
information is an outcome finding pain
is an outcome getting an appointment is
an outcome outcomes are different from
purpose if you were to ask a lawyer
what's the purpose of a trial they
wouldn't say to get the cuddle to get a
conviction no no no those are outcomes
what's the purpose of trying then they'd
give you the fancy while they're all
about the administration of justice and
the impartial hearing that's the purpose
but it's got multiple outcomes so what
is the purpose of prospecting the
purpose of prospecting is to get a human
being emotional about whatever it is
that you fix so I'm phoning up a
stranger
he's sitting at his desk happy as Larry
eating a sandwich egg and Cress not a
not a care in the world at this moment
in time and then iPhone up
and I just talk about the three biggest
things that I typically help my clients
fix
and he either says no I don't recognize
any of those or he says no I I can
relate to some of those and then in the
space of about six to seven questions I
move them from intellectually
acknowledging it to feeling it slightly
I'm not talking Blood and Guts on the
table or the man breaking down an
emotional [__] right I'm talking
where he gets to the point where he says
you know what
it does kind of piss me off or it does
frustrate me or it does annoy me
and then he said all right maybe we
should continue the conversation that is
it a good prospecting call lasts
anywhere from six to eight minutes
anything longer than that and you've
moved into the realm of trying to sell
them or you're waffling and the problem
with most sales people are prospecting
callers they do the crab walk they tend
to go sideways
they're not pushing a person from
intellect to emotion and you can have
great sideways conversation you can talk
to somebody for 20 minutes until
actually
and get to the end of it and I say well
look I've enjoyed the chat but I don't
feel there's anything here it's because
they've done nothing to move the person
from intellect to emotion so the purpose
of a prospecting call is to get someone
emotional about whatever it is that you
fix and you can't get everyone emotional
because some people won't have them they
won't recognize them they won't relate
to them
they don't care about them so it's not
and that's the other thing the
prospecting calls aren't about getting
everybody to say yes they're about
finding the right people to say yes
because I don't want to be kissing frogs
I want to be kissing princesses so I've
got to find the princesses amongst the
frogs they're there but there's only a
few of them
yeah
that's what we're trying to do on a
prospecting call nicely done so in terms
of um
moving people from intellect to emotion
why is it so important Ben to get people
emotional because we buy emotionally
and we justify intellectually
so it doesn't matter how intellectually
brilliant my solution is if I don't feel
if the prospect doesn't feel they need
it then why would they do it so for
instance I I I've got um like everyone I
have a mobile phone or a cell phone if
you're watching in America or the
colonies yeah so you've got a cell phone
or you've got a mobile phone and right
now there's no issues with it it pretty
much seems to get signal Wherever I Go
phone calls work
um I'm paying a rate per month which I'm
quite happy with I'm not that bothered
by it you know it's a business expense
so somebody phoned me up
and tried to convince me intellectually
I tell you what though we can double
your data we can give you extra roaming
we can cut your bill by 15 quid a month
I'd say and it's all well and good but I
I I I can't be asked go through the
hassle of doing all of that because like
I say my phone was but we could save you
money but it's not the money mate I
don't want to go through the whole
[__] hassle of changing this and the
news
it's fine so you're never gonna get me
but you will get me and this is this
truly did happen to me one day I was
prospecting yeah and my phone cut out
twice on prospecting calls now you never
get back to somebody when you get cut
off yeah I was pissed off that afternoon
some chancer phoned up selling Telecom
Services right
and because I was pissed off about what
had happened in the morning and he said
to me you know and he started doing his
thing and I said all right I hear you
out keep going and he said we'll give
you this we'll give you that and I just
said all right but I'll tell you what I
said I'm in let's do it
and you could hear the excitement in his
voice he couldn't believe what he was
hearing that he was thrilled I can't
believe this guy's gonna buy and I said
hey look before we go forward so can I
ask you a question
he goes yeah I said why am I buying from
you why have I agreed to do this do you
know
and he goes well because you know we're
going to double your data um we're going
to save you I said no no no I said I
have no idea if the service you're about
to give me is going to be any better
I don't need the extra data I'm going to
take it because you've offered it I I
didn't even do you know why I'm buying
this he goes well I said spite
I said because as of today whoever it
was it was getting my monthly fee they
ain't getting my money
you could be equally as crap I right now
I don't care I just don't want to give
these Pricks my money anymore because
this morning I think they cost me money
so any other time they would have been
given short sharp shrift
but he got me when I've been let down by
whatever it was that he sold and I I was
emotional pissed off annoying
so that's why when you're prospecting
you're gonna find that they're sitting
there eating a sandwich you've got to
talk about what you fix in the name
something say yo I do recognize that oh
you know we have that as an issue or
we've tried to fix that then we can get
them into a proper conversation that's
why it's important because the journey
has to start emotionally if they just
invite you in out of intellectual
curiosity you're kissing a frog
yeah no one wants to do that so you
mentioned something interesting earlier
something I often talk about when we're
talking about websites and seos to
prospects yeah you don't want to drive a
ton of prospects through the pipeline
that aren't actually a fit to do
business with you so like you said the
purpose of cold calling isn't to get
everyone to say yes and agree to a
meeting because that'll waste your time
and theirs you're just going to go
through a qualification initial meeting
Discovery and realize that you're not a
good fit for everyone and just like with
your website you don't want to drive as
many leads as possible because not
everyone might be able to do business
with you afford Your solution be a good
fit whatever so with that said what are
some quick best practices let's say for
the opener of your cold cool
um
I think everybody knows the one that I I
most um yeah yeah I just want to hear
because I know a lot of people disagree
with it and I've seen a lot I know a lot
of people disagree yeah of course they
do because they disagree with it because
their mum won't let them do it that's
the real reason it's it's not because it
doesn't work it's their mum says you
can't say that um yeah and this is the
thing I stopped listening to my mum a
long time ago I love my mum I love my
dad they gave me great advice but when I
realized that they were costing me a
fortune because I was listening to all
the rules they gave me and a kid that
don't apply as a grown-up I realized how
free I work so the people that say they
don't like it it's because they don't
know how to do it or they've done it
really badly and it's bombed
um and it's like anything salesmen are
actors
sun's coming round and bright sorry
folks it's just it's coming right it's
not on being a nobled or sainted or
anything it's uh it's just the sun I
could just see it but um what was I
saying yeah it's it's
so the opening line I use I've got
several that I like to use so I
interchange them and it all depends on
you know what I'm calling on but the one
that I prefer is and I again this works
predominantly
on decision makers this works on people
in the c-suite as they say so I don't
phone anyone below director level if
you're phoning below direct level you're
wasting your time yes occasionally some
managers have the unilateral ability to
spend money but the word manage should
tell you what they do they don't make
decisions so phone at director level and
the thing about directors these are
tough people they're confident people
they're assertive people these are
people that make decisions for a living
and they got to the top because they
made good decisions sometimes they made
bad decisions then they learn from them
so they're decision makers they're
autonomous
and they're their own person and they
have a very strong sense of concept and
identity so when you phone someone up
like this
I want to deliberately poke them in a
way that's going to make them react and
if you phone up a decision maker and you
tell them to do something their reaction
is no
you don't tell me what to do it's The
Human Condition we're rebellious by
Nature we don't like to be told what to
do so with iPhone up the phone answers
and I go hey is that Sam
and you go yeah you're Sam look you are
gonna hate me this is actually a cold
call so do you want to hang up or let me
have 30 seconds and when you say to
someone do you want to hang up the
reaction most of the time it's not a
hundred percent because you don't know
what frame of mind or what's going on in
that person's world when you phone them
but most of the time 95 of the time if
you deliver that well with assertiveness
and confidence at director level you
often get a bit of a chuckle
you know
you know no no no go on then you know or
it depends what's it about yeah you see
you get permission they give you
permission to talk to them and then the
other bit after that is I don't say can
I have or please is it okay I give them
a command I say let me have it's a
command so do you want to hang up or let
me have so I'm commanding them with the
second bit and it works on a
psychological level because the instant
reaction is no I don't want to hang up
yeah and then let me have 30 seconds and
then you'll get three answers they'll
laugh haha quite like that go on then
some will say well what's it about
which is kind of a weird thing to say
because you've just said can I have 30
seconds to explain what it's about so
it's it's not it's they don't know what
to do here they're caught up they want
to say no but you're gonna say how much
of this is because it's still very
unusual to hear this type of cold cool
intro and how much of it is weighted on
the way you actually deliver and the
delivery is key if you say um I'll be up
front this is um this is a this is a
cold call um
do you want to hang up or can I have 30
seconds they're gonna think loser wimp
remember if you're talking decision
making level you've got to be like your
prospect you've got to mirror them and
you have to sound like them and that's
very hard for most people in sales
because most people in sales are young
men and women in their 20s maybe early
30s they don't own two homes in a boat
they aren't technically Successful by
The Wider World standards and then
you're phoning someone who probably is
successful
so you don't act or sound like them you
have to learn to create that character I
had to learn it because I I wasn't like
that so it's tiring to be a good actor
because every time you pick up that
phone you've got to become that same
character just for a few seconds and
then you can go into a different route
so yeah it's very important that you
deliver it well
yeah yeah and that makes sense and
because we've got a we've got a few
other topics we've got to move through
any other quick quick pointers on the
cold call in terms of you mentioned
earlier you typically involve three
common pain points or problems that your
customers will typically have so yeah is
that the next step or if we could just
the hardest thing for salesmen to do is
put himself into his Prospect shoes and
see the world through their eyes so most
sales people always talk in marketing
speak or solution speak we help
companies do x y z we have this
proprietary system that can do we
achieve blah blah blah uh people tell us
they have
but your prospects never thinking in
that language
so I can't phone up and say hi I'm a
sales trainer and I give people a
systematic psychological based approach
that will enable your salespeople to get
it and he goes oh well it's funny you
should say that because I was just
thinking about that this morning
no what is a guy that could use me
probably bitching or moaning about that
I could fix and I know the number one
thing I phone any MD or C I go look
you've probably got great guys but
you're maybe a bit frustrated that
they're reluctant or not motivated to
pick up the phone and Prospect and they
say to you yes
I recognize that
that's what we're after we're after what
they see in their everyday life so
you've got to reduce it to that and
that's hard every client I get has to do
that exercise and they struggle because
they write down what they fix no no no
not what you fix write down what your
prospects viewing in their everyday life
that you fix
ah I don't know
so how can you phone someone up and
honestly say you understand them and you
can't even view their problem through
their eyes so that's a key takeaway and
if you get that right your prospecting
calls will work
so much better than the vomit you're
probably spewing on them now yeah it
forms your marketing a lot we've done a
lot of past episodes where we've talked
to marketers and basically shared about
how you can run customer interviews so
you interview your current best
customers find out the problems they
actually came to you with what they
wanted to fix find out the ones that the
most common the juiciest and the ones
that actually bring cash flow and then
use those in your sales material whether
that's in your calls your website your
marketing material all that good stuff
so that makes sense
um and just to wrap this up are we are
we constantly pushing for the meeting so
if if we've had a problem that they've
said yeah that that resonates and are we
are we just looking to dig deeper on
that and eventually close out with
saying like can we set up an appointment
next Tuesday no or something like that I
I do not use the word can we have a
meaning or can we book in an appointment
um I can't remember the last time I ever
asked anyone
for an appointment or a meeting
um because the way I structure my calls
it's not possible the call ends I've
done my my questions to get them
slightly emotional because the last
question I ask is can I ask you a last
question before you hang up have you
given up trying to fix this
now because I've done my job well 99 of
the time I get will know
and as soon as I get that that's it
that's the end of the Prospect and go I
then go into with a very simple line I
go well look I'll be honest I don't know
if I can fix this for you
but I've worked with a lot of companies
with these problems and we've managed to
eliminate it for a lot of them not all
of them
but most of them now let's pretend and
on like I say I'm not saying I can but
let's pretend we could fix this for you
and when you saw our solution you
genuinely believed it would work is
there any reason you wouldn't invite me
in to explore that further she asked to
be invited in yeah I never asked for a
meeting or an appointment no no because
that's imposing myself on it is there
any reason you wouldn't invite me in to
explore that further and they all say no
not Rick because it's hard to say no
it's really hard to say no to the way
that's phrased I don't know if I can fix
it for you but let's pretend you did
believe we could fix it is there any
reason you want to explore that further
no I can't see why not you know it's
almost impossible yeah I would actually
so they say no and as soon as they say
that I go straight in with another
question have you got your diary there
and then going yeah yeah I go what date
you're looking at now I give these mini
commands what date you're looking at so
never ask for a meeting never ask for an
appointment
it's almost the equivalent of saying to
somebody here pass me your wallet what
happens to you the moments is here pass
me your wallet there's that Flint what
and all of a sudden the barrier goes up
that's what happens when you say well
look can we schedule an appointment all
of a sudden the prospect goes uh uh
and then they half-heartedly commit to
it because I kind of feel they have to
for social nice at his point and then
the moment they hang up they think
bollocks to that
a lot of this is in the small things it
sounds like from the tone of your voice
and using commanding words and phrasing
things in a certain way
can make quite a big difference selling
is the art of communication that is all
this is this is two human beings talking
and my job is to make someone
comfortable
if they're not comfortable they won't
move forwards with me sales people don't
realize how uncomfortable they make
people
and there you have it I hope this
step-by-step guide on how to nail cold
calls has been of use as always if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick
subscribe on YouTube is much appreciated
or a rating on your podcast Channel goes
a long way and with that I should catch
you on the next episode cheers